.\" Manpage for anvil.
.\" Contact: https://github.com/siddhantbhattarai/anvil
.TH ANVIL 1 "2026-06-16" "anvil 0.6.0" "ANVIL Security Scanner Manual"
.SH NAME
anvil \- adversarial web application vulnerability scanner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B anvil
.B \-t
.I URL
.RB [ \-p
.IR PARAM ]
.RI [ CLASS-FLAGS ]
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B anvil
.B \-\-target
.I URL
.B \-\-all
.RB [ \-\-crawl ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR FILE ]
.RB [ \-\-format
.IR FORMAT ]
.br
.B anvil
.B \-\-mcp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ANVIL
is an enterprise-grade, evidence-driven web application security scanner.
It detects and safely proves eleven active classes of vulnerability plus five
passive audits with a low false-positive rate, then emits machine-readable
reports suitable for triage and continuous-integration gating. It can also run
as an MCP server (\fB\-\-mcp\fR) so AI agents can drive it as a native tool.
.PP
Each finding is confirmed by observable evidence (a database error or boolean
oracle, JavaScript execution, an out-of-band callback, command output, or a
file-content signature) rather than by payload reflection alone, so reflected
input cannot by itself raise a finding.
.PP
Run a single targeted check by combining
.B \-t/\-\-target
and
.B \-p/\-\-param
with one class flag (for example
.BR \-\-sqli ),
or sweep every class with
.BR \-\-all .
When a parameter is not given explicitly, ANVIL discovers testable parameters
from the target URL and, with
.BR \-\-crawl ,
from the wider application.
.SH DETECTION CLASSES
.TP
.B \-\-sqli
SQL injection (CWE-89). Boolean, error, union, time-based, stacked,
out-of-band, and second-order techniques. See
.B SQLI DETECTION
options.
.TP
.BR \-\-nosqli ", " \-\-nosql
NoSQL injection (CWE-943). MongoDB-style operator injection, confirmed by a
boolean differential between an always-true (\fIparam\fR[$ne]) and always-false
(\fIparam\fR[$eq]) operator; operator tokens are stripped before comparing so a
reflected payload cannot false-positive.
.TP
.B \-\-xss
Cross-site scripting (CWE-79). Reflected by default; stored, DOM, and blind
modes via
.B XSS DETECTION
options.
.TP
.B \-\-ssrf
Server-side request forgery (CWE-918). Internal ranges, cloud metadata
endpoints, and non-HTTP schemes via
.B SSRF DETECTION
options.
.TP
.B \-\-cmdi
OS command injection (CWE-78). Output-based and time-based detection.
.TP
.BR \-\-path\-traversal ", " \-\-lfi
Path traversal / local file inclusion (CWE-22). Confirmed only when a known
file's content signature appears in the response.
.TP
.B \-\-xxe
XML External Entity injection (CWE-611). POSTs an XML document declaring an
external file entity and confirms only when the file's content signature
(\fBroot:\fR...\fB:0:0:\fR) appears in the response \(em proof the parser resolved it.
Endpoint-level.
.TP
.B \-\-ssti
Server-side template injection (CWE-1336). A marker-wrapped arithmetic
expression is injected across common template syntaxes (Jinja2/Twig, Freemarker,
ERB, Smarty, Razor, Pug); confirmed only when the engine returns the evaluated
product. Frequently escalates to remote code execution.
.TP
.BR \-\-open\-redirect ", " \-\-redirect
Open redirect / unvalidated forward (CWE-601). A canary host is injected via the
common bypass forms (absolute, scheme-relative, missing-slash, backslash) and
confirmed only when the effective redirect target host \(em parsed from the
.B Location
header, a meta refresh, or a JavaScript assignment \(em resolves to the canary.
.TP
.B \-\-cors
CORS misconfiguration (CWE-942). Sends crafted
.B Origin
headers and inspects
.B Access-Control-Allow-Origin
/
.BR Access-Control-Allow-Credentials .
Reported only when the server reflects an arbitrary or null origin (worst with
credentials enabled); wildcard
.B ACAO
is noted separately at low severity. This check is endpoint-level, not
parameter-based.
.TP
.B \-\-crlf
CRLF / HTTP response header injection (CWE-113). Injects a CR/LF sequence plus a
unique
.B X-Anvil-Crlf
header through the parameter; confirmed only when that header appears in the
response headers (a body reflection cannot create a response header).
.TP
.BR \-\-security\-headers ", " \-\-sec\-headers
Passive security-header & cookie audit (OWASP A05). Sends no payloads; inspects
the response for missing or weak hardening controls \(em HSTS, Content-Security-
Policy, anti-clickjacking (X-Frame-Options / frame-ancestors), X-Content-Type-
Options, Referrer-Policy, version disclosure, and insecure cookie flags
(Secure / HttpOnly / SameSite). Endpoint-level; one finding per gap.
.TP
.B \-\-jwt
JSON Web Token weakness analysis (CWE-347). Offline: harvests JWTs from
.BR \-\-cookie / \-\-header
and the target response, then decodes and checks each for the
.B none
algorithm (unsigned), a weak/guessable HMAC secret (verified against a built-in
list \(em the cracked secret is reported), and a missing
.B exp
claim. No tokens are forged or replayed.
.TP
.BR \-\-secrets ", " \-\-data\-exposure
Sensitive-data / secret exposure (OWASP A02). Passive: scans response bodies for
high-confidence, fixed-signature secrets (private-key blocks, AWS / Google /
GitHub / Slack / Stripe keys) and verbose error / stack-trace disclosure. The
matched secret is redacted in the finding.
.TP
.BR \-\-components ", " \-\-outdated
Vulnerable / outdated component detection (OWASP A06). Passive: fingerprints
front-end libraries (jQuery, Bootstrap, Lodash, AngularJS, Handlebars) in
response bodies and flags versions below a known-safe release, each tied to a
representative advisory.
.TP
.B \-\-sri
Subresource Integrity audit (OWASP A08, CWE-353). Passive: flags cross-origin
.B <script>
and
.B <link rel=stylesheet>
resources that load without an
.B integrity
attribute. Same-origin and integrity-protected resources are ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Core features
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-target \fIURL\fR
Target URL. Required. Example:
.IR https://example.com/page.php?id=1 .
.TP
.BR \-\-all ", " \-\-owasp
Run the full OWASP sweep: every active detection class plus the passive audits
(security headers, JWT, secrets) in a single invocation. Out-of-band checks
(blind XSS/SSRF, OOB SQLi) and data-extraction modes are not included.
.TP
.B \-\-mcp
Run as a Model Context Protocol server over stdio (newline-delimited JSON-RPC),
exposing an
.B anvil_scan
tool so AI agents can drive the scanner. Ignores
.BR \-\-target ;
stdout carries only protocol messages.
.TP
.B \-\-fingerprint
Fingerprint server, operating system, and framework.
.TP
.B \-\-crawl
Crawl the application and discover parameters.
.TP
.B \-\-js\-crawl
Render JavaScript with headless Chrome while crawling to find SPA routes,
forms, and XHR/fetch APIs a static crawl misses.
.TP
.BR \-\-sqli ", " \-\-nosqli ", " \-\-xss ", " \-\-ssrf ", " \-\-cmdi ", " \-\-path\-traversal ", " \-\-ssti ", " \-\-xxe ", " \-\-open\-redirect ", " \-\-cors ", " \-\-crlf ", " \-\-security\-headers ", " \-\-jwt ", " \-\-secrets ", " \-\-components ", " \-\-sri
Enable an individual detection class (see
.BR "DETECTION CLASSES" ).
.SS XSS detection
.TP
.B \-\-xss\-all
Enable all XSS types (reflected, stored, DOM, blind).
.TP
.B \-\-xss\-stored
Stored / persistent XSS.
.TP
.B \-\-xss\-dom
DOM-based XSS (client-side analysis).
.TP
.B \-\-xss\-blind
Blind XSS using out-of-band callbacks.
.TP
.B \-\-callback \fIDOMAIN\fR
Callback domain for blind XSS. Requires
.BR \-\-xss\-blind .
.TP
.B \-\-max\-payloads \fIN\fR
Maximum payloads per context (default: 20).
.TP
.B \-\-xss\-context \fICONTEXT\fR
Target context: html, attribute, js_string, js_code, url, polyglot.
.SS SSRF detection
.TP
.B \-\-ssrf\-all
Enable all SSRF types (internal, metadata, schemes).
.TP
.B \-\-ssrf\-internal
Test internal ranges (RFC1918, loopback, link-local).
.TP
.B \-\-ssrf\-metadata
Test cloud metadata endpoints (AWS, GCP, Azure).
.TP
.B \-\-ssrf\-schemes
Test non-HTTP schemes (file, gopher, ftp, dict).
.TP
.B \-\-ssrf\-callback \fIDOMAIN\fR
Callback domain for blind SSRF.
.TP
.B \-\-ssrf\-max\-payloads \fIN\fR
Maximum payloads per parameter (default: 20).
.SS SQL injection detection
.TP
.B \-\-sqli\-all
Enable all SQLi techniques.
.TP
.B \-\-time\-sqli
Time-based (blind) SQLi.
.TP
.B \-\-stacked
Stacked-query SQLi.
.TP
.B \-\-oob
Out-of-band SQLi.
.TP
.B \-\-oob\-callback \fIDOMAIN\fR
Callback domain for OOB detection.
.TP
.B \-\-second\-order
Second-order SQLi.
.TP
.B \-\-technique \fIBEUTS\fR
Techniques to use: B=Boolean, E=Error, U=Union, T=Time, S=Stacked
(default: BEUTS).
.SS Enumeration (post-exploitation, authorized use only)
.TP
.BR \-\-dbs ", " \-\-tables ", " \-\-columns ", " \-\-schema
Enumerate databases, tables, columns, or the full schema.
.TP
.BR \-\-count ", " \-\-dump ", " \-\-dump\-all
Count rows; dump a table; dump all tables. See
.B RULES OF ENGAGEMENT.
.TP
.B \-D, \-\-database \fINAME\fR ; \-T, \-\-table \fINAME\fR ; \-C, \-\-col \fILIST\fR
Scope enumeration to a database, table, or column list.
.TP
.B \-\-start \fIN\fR ; \-\-stop \fIN\fR
First and last row to retrieve.
.SS Database / user info
.TP
.BR \-\-banner ", " \-\-current\-user ", " \-\-current\-db ", " \-\-hostname ", " \-\-is\-dba
Retrieve DBMS banner, current user, current database, hostname, or DBA status.
.TP
.BR \-\-users ", " \-\-passwords ", " \-\-privileges ", " \-\-roles
Enumerate DBMS users, password hashes, privileges, or roles.
.TP
.BR \-\-crack " " \-\-wordlist \fIFILE\fR
Crack retrieved hashes with a dictionary (built-in list if no wordlist given).
.SS Authentication
.TP
.B \-\-cookie \fISTRING\fR
Cookie string for authenticated scanning.
.TP
.B \-H, \-\-header \fIHEADER\fR
Extra HTTP header; repeatable.
.SS Injection point
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-param \fINAME\fR
Parameter to test directly (skips discovery).
.TP
.B \-\-data \fIDATA\fR
POST body to test.
.TP
.B \-\-method \fIMETHOD\fR
HTTP method, GET or POST (default: GET).
.TP
.B \-\-trigger\-url \fIURL\fR
Trigger URL for second-order SQLi.
.TP
.BR \-\-extra\-data ", " \-\-prefix ", " \-\-suffix
Extra POST data, and a prefix/suffix wrapped around each payload.
.SS Tuning
.TP
.B \-\-threshold \fIFLOAT\fR
Detection confidence threshold, 0.0\(en1.0 (default: 0.5).
.TP
.B \-\-risk \fIN\fR
Risk level: 1=safe, 2=moderate, 3=aggressive (default: 1).
.TP
.B \-\-level \fIN\fR
Test level: 1=basic, 2=extended, 3=comprehensive (default: 1).
.SS Performance
.TP
.B \-\-rate \fIN\fR
Maximum HTTP requests per second (default: 5). This is a global politeness
limit; lower it for fragile targets, raise it for lab benchmarks.
.TP
.B \-\-depth \fIN\fR
Crawl depth limit (default: 2).
.TP
.BR \-\-time\-samples ", " \-\-time\-delay
Time-based SQLi sampling count (default: 6) and delay in seconds (default: 2).
.TP
.B \-\-threads \fIN\fR
Threads for data extraction (default: 1).
.SS Output
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output \fIFILE\fR
Write the report to a file.
.TP
.B \-\-format \fIFORMAT\fR
Report format: text, json, csv (default: text).
.TP
.B \-\-fail\-on \fISEVERITY\fR
CI / agent gating. Exit with code 2 if any finding at or above \fISEVERITY\fR
(info, low, medium, high, critical) is reported; otherwise exit 0. Without this
flag the exit code is always 0 on success. See \fBEXIT STATUS\fR.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet " / " \-v ", " \-\-verbose " / " \-\-no\-banner
Minimal output / debug output / suppress the startup banner.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Targeted SQL injection on one parameter:
.B anvil \-t 'http://host/page?id=1' \-p id \-\-sqli
.TP
NoSQL (MongoDB operator) injection:
.B anvil \-t 'http://host/find?q=cat' \-p q \-\-nosqli
.TP
Full XSS sweep with all modes:
.B anvil \-t 'http://host/search?q=t' \-p q \-\-xss \-\-xss\-all
.TP
SSRF against a URL parameter:
.B anvil \-t 'http://host/fetch?url=x' \-p url \-\-ssrf
.TP
OS command injection:
.B anvil \-t 'http://host/ping?host=x' \-p host \-\-cmdi
.TP
Path traversal / LFI:
.B anvil \-t 'http://host/view?file=a' \-p file \-\-path\-traversal
.TP
XML External Entity (endpoint-level):
.B anvil \-t 'http://host/api/xml' \-\-xxe
.TP
Server-side template injection:
.B anvil \-t 'http://host/tpl?name=x' \-p name \-\-ssti
.TP
Open redirect:
.B anvil \-t 'http://host/go?next=/' \-p next \-\-open\-redirect
.TP
CORS misconfiguration (endpoint-level):
.B anvil \-t 'http://host/api/me' \-\-cors
.TP
CRLF / header injection:
.B anvil \-t 'http://host/set?lang=en' \-p lang \-\-crlf
.TP
Passive security-header audit:
.B anvil \-t 'https://host/' \-\-security\-headers
.TP
JWT weakness analysis (token from a cookie):
.B anvil \-t 'https://host/api' \-\-cookie 'session=eyJ...' \-\-jwt
.TP
Sensitive-data / secret exposure:
.B anvil \-t 'https://host/config.js' \-\-secrets
.TP
Outdated / vulnerable components:
.B anvil \-t 'https://host/' \-\-components
.TP
Subresource Integrity audit:
.B anvil \-t 'https://host/' \-\-sri
.TP
Crawl the whole app and write a JSON report:
.B anvil \-t http://host \-\-all \-\-crawl \-o report.json \-\-format json
.TP
CI / agent gating (exit 2 on any High+ finding):
.B anvil \-t http://host \-\-owasp \-\-fail\-on high \-\-format json
.TP
Run as an MCP server for AI agents:
.B anvil \-\-mcp
.SH OUTPUT
Findings are printed to standard output and, with
.BR \-o ,
written to a file in the format selected by
.BR \-\-format .
The
.B json
and
.B csv
formats are stable and intended for CI pipelines and downstream tooling.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Completed successfully with no findings at or above the
.B \-\-fail\-on
threshold (or no threshold was set).
.TP
.B 1
A fatal error occurred (invalid arguments, target unreachable, or an
out-of-scope request was blocked).
.TP
.B 2
Completed successfully, but one or more findings met or exceeded the
.B \-\-fail\-on
severity threshold.
.SH RULES OF ENGAGEMENT
ANVIL is for authorized security testing only. Only scan systems you own or
have explicit written permission to test. Enumeration and dump options
(\fB\-\-dump\fR, \fB\-\-dump\-all\fR) retrieve real data and must never be run
against production systems without authorization. The default
.B \-\-rate 5
and
.B \-\-risk 1
settings are conservative; raising them increases load on the target.
.SH AUTHOR
Siddhant Bhattarai.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project documentation and source: https://github.com/siddhantbhattarai/anvil
.PP
sqlmap(1), nikto(1), nuclei(1)
